The Monitor
A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to the Interests of the Eight Thousand Colored People
in Omaha and Vicinity, and to the Good of the Community
The Rev. JOHN ALBERT WILLIAMS, Editor
$1.50 a Year. 5c a Copy. Omaha, Nebraska, April 1, 1916_Volume I. Number 40
Colored Cadets Who
Attended West Point
Twelve Young Men of Race Have Been
Students in Famous National
Military Academy
THREE RECEIVE COMMISSIONS
Flipper, Alexander and Young Graduated.
No Colored Cadet Admitted in Last Thirty Years.
Washington, D. C., March 31.—In response to an inquiry forwarded by J. Henry Lewis, 458 American Bank Building, the Adjutant General of the United States Army has given the following information concerning the Negroes who have been nominated to the West Point Military Academy at various times, with data as to when they entered and when they left the Military Academy, and the manner thereof:
The information given shows that three men, Henry O. Flipper, of Georgia; John H. Alexander, of Ohio, and Charles Young, of Ohio, were the only ones to graduate, though twelve were admitted in the years from 1870 to 1886. Young is the only Negro West Point graduate now in the army, he having attained the rank of major, commanding the second battalion of the 10th cavalry, now on duty trying to capture Villa in Mexico. The letter from the adjutant general to Mr. Lewis is as follows:
The following sets forth the names of all Negroes who have been admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point, together with additional data showing the year in which each man was admitted and the manner and year each left the Academy:
No. 1. James W. Smith, South Carolina, admitted, 1870; discharged 1874.
No. 2. Henry A. Naplier, Tennessee, admitted, 1871; discharged 1872.
No. 3. Thomas Van R. Gibbs, Florida, admitted, 1872; discharged 1873.
No. 4. HENRY O. FLIPPER, Georgia, admitted, 1873; graduated 1877.
No. 5. John W. Williams, Virginia, admitted, 1874; discharged 1875.
No. 6. Johnson C. Whittaker, South Carolina, admitted, 1876; discharged 1882.
No. 7. Charles A. Minnie, New York, admitted, 1877; discharged 1878.
No. 8. JOHN H. ALEXANDER, Ohio, admitted, 1884; graduated 1889.
No. 9. CHARLES YOUNG, Ohio, admitted, 1884; graduated 1889.
No. 10. William T. Andrews, South Carolina, admitted, 1885; discharged 1886.
No. 11. William A. Hare, Ohio, admitted, 1885; discharged 1889.
No. 12. Henry W. Holloway, South Carolina, admitted, 1886; discharged 1886.
The official records also show that (Continued on last page.)

Something to Make You Think
BY WAY OF RETALIATION
HATS OFF TO THE ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH. It fought a noble though losing fight at St. Louis against the damnable segregation ordinances. The Negroes of that city should rally to its standard in the future and taboo all the other daily papers who raised a voice against them in their great battle for justice in the election held there. As a token of appreciation, this great defender of the true American principles of freedom should be welcomed into every Colored home in the entire city, and all of those who aided the denationalization of the race should be openly excluded. Unity of action in carrying out this program would entail a loss of many thousands of dollars annually to each of the papers who took a stand for segregation. Their advertising value would be equally reduced in proportion to the losses sustained in their circulation. The damage would not stop here. The income from 18,000 or 20,000 Colored readers would aggregate an item any daily would give much to avoid. This is the kind of organization the Negroes of St. Louis will find to be the most effective in the final summing up of accounts.
A campaign of careful investigation should be instituted at once of how every tradesman who has hitherto enjoyed a liberal Negro patronage voted on the segregation ordinances. Several “gum-shoe” committees should be put out on this work as soon as possible—the sooner the better. Printed lists of all such persons who took an active part against the cause of the race should be handled through the various ward headquarters and mailed directly to the home of every Negro voter listed on the poll-books with full information as to the stand of the individual on the segregation question. This is a practical method of retaliation, and easy of accomplishment. If it is carried out, the merchants in the heavily populated Negro districts of the city will be made to rue, most bitterly, their part in bringing about this unlawful humiliation. The silent contemplation of the wreck they have made of their commercial future will make them secretly curse the man or set of men who originally fostered the plan of forcing these ordinances upon the people. This sort of thing would show the “double-crossers” that there is absolutely a new Negro to deal with, nowadays, who refuses to “turn the other cheek” to the cowardly blows of American prejudice. —The Indianapolis Ledger.

“THAT MAN OWNS HIS HOME.
(Editorial in Indianapolis Ledger.)
THE OTHER DAY ONE OF THE GREAT DAILY PAPERS carried a full-page illustration of two men holding a conversation, and one was pointing to a third man passing, a man with a confident, determined, successful air about him, and the man pointing said: "That Man Owns His Home.”
This was not an advertising proposition. It was simply a new idea of a great daily paper to impress on the minds of its readers, the importance, the satisfaction, the inspiration of being the possessor of at least one piece of real estate.
This is the season of the year when the mind turns to home changes, and the man who has always paid rent, and has nothing but a bunch of receipts to show for it, ought to sit down and ask himself: “Why continue to pay tribute to Caesar?”
There is one commendable thing about the earnest people of our race: They are investing in real estate more and more each year. Real estate discriminations, segregation ordinances, and the like, are serving only to make them more determined to become a freeholder, a real possessor of a small piece of terra firma, and the home privileges that possession permits.
It is a very inspiring and encouraging sight in traveling from city to city, and from town to town, for that matter, and have some well-informed inhabitant of that community accompany you about, and point out place after place, and tell you: “This is owned by Mr. Johnson, one of our highly esteemed citizens.” Nothing about the places has the traditional earmarks of "Colored.” In external appearance, the most exclusive son of Caucasian blood could justly criticize the arrangement and design.
Go within, and from attic to basement, you will find cleanliness, taste, beauty, comfort, and in not a few instances, real luxury. These places, these homes, are the real beacon lights of racial progress. They are increasing from year to year, as the younger men and women fit themselves for the business life and the professions, as the laborer learns the secret of saving; and now is the time, this springtime, to think where you stand in this analysis of progress, and if you are not “up in the running” get busy and act.
Let it be said of you soon, if not now: “THAT MAN OWNS HIS HOME.”
From Fair Nebraska
to Sunny Tennessee
Incidents of the Trip and Impressions
Received by Editor on First Visit
to the Southland.
STRANGE INCONSISTENCIES.
A Colored Servant in Attendance Upon
a White Person Given Admission
Where Otherwise Denied.
I said that the provisions made for the separation of the races impressed an outsider as being strangely inconsistent. For example: a Colored servant, in attendance upon a white person, is given entry to public places whereas if the same person, but in an independent capacity, should attempt to enter the same place to which he was before admitted as the attendant upon a white person, admission would be emphatically and peremptorily denied him or her.
I was told of the following cases which illustrate this point.
Race Given Work.
A prominent clergyman of Memphis has a Colored nurse girl; and by the way, the Colored people have an almost exclusive monopoly of domestic work in the South. Not only is this true, but you see Colored men doing the work that generally falls to white men in Northern and Western cities. Whatever else may be said about the South, it is only fair to state that the people of the South give our race the opportunity to work, in many, many lines of employment from which they are excluded in the North.
An Explanation.
I commented on this and one of my facetious friends said: “You know the reason for that, don’t you?”
“It's because they are good workmen,” I ventured.
“Not only that,” he replied, “but you know the Southern white man has what they call the ‘hook worm,’ a euphemism for laziness, which incapacitates him for work, and as the Negro just loves to work, and somebody must do it, why, our white friends just let us do it. That’s why.”
As my friend lives there and knows conditions, or ought to know them, it may be the part of wisdom to accept his explanation.
Be that as it may, I was immensely pleased to see the work our people are doing; and I was told that the wages received are reasonably good. You may not know that I have just enough socialistic symptoms to believe that the average wages paid anywhere are seldom as large as they should be; but as wages go, I was told that Colored labor in Memphis receives good wages, and what pleased me more was to learn that the people are putting their wages to good use.
“Nursie” Goes to Movies.
But to return to the aforesaid clergyman’s Colored nurse girl. Of course, a nurse girl implies children to be nursed and cared for. The good doctor, D.D., not M.D., or D.D.S., has two or three lovely children, who are very fond of “nursie”—strange, isn’t it, since they are white and she is black? Nursie is fond of them.
“Nursie” likes to attend picture shows. The nearest one which admits Colored people is on Beale Avenue, Memphis’ famous Colored Broadway, if you please, several blocks away.
“Nursie” said the employer: “I don’t care to go to Beale Avenue every time I want to attend the movies.”
The good doctor said: “Of course you don’t. Well, just take the children and go to the ‘X’, naming an exclusive (for white people only) picture theatre nearby.
So Nursie takes the children and has entry to the exclusive movie theatre. She couldn’t go alone, of course. She would be excluded.
And Also to the Circus.
A circus was in town. Not when I was there in February. Two such attractions—ahem—could hardly be there at the same time, without either one or the other attraction suffering. Modesty forbids my saying which attraction would have suffered in that event. The circus was there last year. Circuses have their exits and their entrances,” too, “this side for white,” “this side for Colored.”
The reverend doctor took his wife and children—simply “to see the animals,” of course. This is the way my good father, who was a Methodist class leader, but loved a circus, used to justify his attendance. He had to go to “take the children to see the animals,” but somehow we all got to see the trapeze performers, bare-back riders, clowns and everything else there was to see. This good doctor, like my father, doubtless, took his children to “see the animals.”
“Nursie” went too, to take care of the children. Did she enter by the way provided “for Colored people?” No! The good doctor simply said to the doorkeeper, “Servant,” and Nursie went in along with the rest of the white folks and sat in the reserved seat section to see the show.
Zion Baptist Church.
First services in the New Zion Baptist Church Sunday, April 2, 1916, to which all the pastors and churches are invited, and the public in general. The following program will be carried out:
From 6 to 7:30 a.m., Sun Rise Prayer Meeting.
From 10:30 to 10:45 a.m., Congregational Song Services.
From 10:45 to 11 a.m., Special music by choir of forty voices.
Scripture Reading, Rev. Mathews.
Prayer, Dr. E. H. McDonald, St. Paul, Minn.
Music, by choir.
Announcements.
Sermon, by the Pastor, Rev. W. F. Botts.
Opening the doors of the church for the reception of members.
Special, (Dollar) $1.00 Rally and general collection.
Afternoon Services.
Sunday School, from 1 to 2 p.m., Mrs. H. F. Smith, Supt.
3 to 4:30 p.m., Baptismal services.
Song, by Choir.
Scripture Reading, Dr. G. G. Logan.
Prayer, Dr. W. T. Osborne.
Song, by Choir.
Sermon, Dr. E. H. McDonald.
Prayer, Rev. Brown, South Omaha.
Opening doors of church.
Collection and Benediction, Rev. Jackson of Council Bluffs.
Evening Services.
6:30 to 7:30 B.Y.P.U., Sister Odessa Harris, Pres.
7:30 to 7:45, Choir devotionals.
7:45 to 8, Scripture reading, Pastor W. F. Botts.
Prayer, Dr. E. H. McDonald.
Announcements.
Sermon, Dr. D. D. Proper, secretary of the Church Extension Fund of Home Mission Board of N.Y.
Opening doors of church.
Special, (Dollar) $1.00 Rally and general collection.
Fellowship of new members and administration of the Lord’s Supper.
PROGRAM FOR THE WEEK.
Monday Night.
Musical Program rendered by First Regimental Band of K. of P.
Tuesday Night.
Thank Offering Banquet to those who helped us.
Special Music, by Choir.
Wednesday Night.
Homecoming for all Baptists of the city and friends, followed by social hour and Mite.
Thursday Night.
Leap Year Banquet, program and special music by the ladies of the Church.
Address, Mrs. J. Alice Stewart.
Friday Night.
Special program, by young people.
Rev. W. F. Botts, Pastor.
Sister Lizzie Howard, Church Clerk.