The Monitor
A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to the Interests of the Eight Thousand Colored People in Omaha and Vicinity, and to the Good of the Community
The Rev. JOHN ALBERT WILLIAMS, Editor
$1.00 a Year. 5c a Copy. Omaha, Nebraska, July 10, 1915 Volume I. Number 2

COLORED BOY BREAKS GRADUATION RECORD ONLY TEN YEARS OLD.
New Haven, Conn., June 28. A colored boy broke the graduation record in the public schools of New Haven, Conn., last week, when Pritchett A. Klugh, the 10-year-old son of Rev. Dr. D. S. Klugh, pastor of the Emmanuel Baptist church, graduated from the Scranton public school as the youngest member to ever leave the public school of this city. In the class with young Klugh were 150 members, all of them being 14 years of age and more, and the appearance of this young boy of color receiving his diploma at the age of 10 was easily the feature of the commencement exercises. The record that this boy has made has created a wide stir in educational circles of New Haven, and is furnishing a topic for conversation among the intellectuals that has sent the stock of the Negro race up in New Haven 100 percent. Investigation has found that the record of young Klugh in school was very brilliant, and his work was warmly praised by his teachers and the principal of the school. Young Klugh has been prominently mentioned for a candidate for the New Haven high school which prepares for Yale university, and when he enters high school this fall he will be the youngest candidate to ever enter the New Haven high school, which makes the feat of this boy a record that the whole race might well be proud of. If he keeps up his present record, he will be ready for Yale university at the age of 14, an age when most boys are leaving the grammar school. In an interview with Rev. Dr. Klugh, the father of young Klugh, he stated that his boy was perfectly normal in his play and study. “He is very fond of study,” stated Dr. Klugh, "and that accounts for his success in his studies.” Dr. Klugh said that his boy was extremely fond of reading and was also of a mechanical turn of mind. The record of young Klugh will be welcomed throughout the country with much delight, and his career will be watched with keen interest. Rev. Dr. Klugh is one of the most successful pastors in New Haven, and his church is one of the largest of the city.

GOVERNOR WILLIS AGAINST THE PICTURES—INDORSES SUPREME COURT STAND.
Columbus, O., June 28. Governor Frank B. Willis, of this state, who proved his strong friendship for the race by having revoked the state censors' permit given for the photoplay, “The Nigger,” to show in Ohio, and who declared that "The Birth of the Nation" should not be granted a permit to show in Ohio, has again won the plaudits of the colored people by his splendid endorsement of the federal supreme court’s decision in the Oklahoma case. Thus far he is the only state executive who has expressed himself respecting this decision. When the decision was rendered he very promptly gave public utterance to the following:
“The decision of the United States supreme court against the "grandfather" clause in the laws of Oklahoma, and in the Maryland case, is one of the most important and far-reaching in years. It is a vindication of the principle that in this country a citizen’s worth is to be measured by his own merit, and not by the qualifications of his grandfather. The principle of the “grandfather” clause was un-American, unfair and altogether out of harmony with the spirit of our institutions. The law should encourage every citizen without regard to race or color to improve his own condition, not dampen and kill his energy and ambition by applying a rule of recognition as arbitrary and indefensible as ever stained the pages of the history of hereditary feudalism in the dark ages. The fifteenth amendment meant what it said when it proclaimed that the right to vote should not be denied on account of race, or color or previous condition of servitude. This amendment does not prohibit a fair educational qualification applicable to all races alike, but it does prohibit unfair discrimination between races. The decision of the supreme court will be hailed with satisfaction by every person who believes in a fair chance for all.”

YOUNG EMMETT SCOTT WINS SCHOOL PRIZES
Boston, Mass., June 30.—In the Boston Evening Transcript of Tuesday, June 22, report is made of the graduation of 113 students of the Phillips Exeter Academy, located at Exeter, N. H., and also of the prize awards for the year.
Emmett J. Scott, Jr., of Tuskegee Institute, Ala., is reported in the prize awards for the year as having won a first Nathaniel Gordon prize of $20 for proficiency in knowledge of the Bible; is also listed as an honor man of the second group, being one of the only five students of his class who is listed for such honors, having maintained a yearly average of Grade B; and also receives honorable mention, having received Grade A in certain studies during the whole of the year.
In the scholarship awards published by the academy in the Transcript some weeks ago, young Scott was listed as having won a Phillips’ scholarship award of $100 and a Kingman scholarship award of $80.
He is the only colored student this year attending Phillips Exeter Academy; he last year received his diploma from Tuskegee Institute, having finished the academic course of study and that of the machine shop division. He is being prepared for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

BUSINESS LEAGUE TO MEET IN BOSTON
The approaching meeting of the National Negro Business League on August 18, 19 and 20 will be its fifteenth annual session, and quite appropriately it will be held in Boston, Mass., where the league was organized in 1900.
The Boston Local Negro Business League, assisted by the local league of Cambridge, has about perfected arrangements for the meeting.
Reports to be submitted at the meeting of the national league will show approximately 45,000 Negro business enterprises, 51 Negro banks, 695 Negro drug stores, 1,000 undertaking establishments, 240 wholesale businesses and 25,000 retail businesses. Farm property is valued at $492,892,218.
Affiliated organizations which will meet in connection with the league are the National Negro Press Association, National Negro Bankers’ Association, the National Negro Funeral Directors’ Association, the National Negro Bar Association and the National Association of Negro Insurance Men. Each of these organizations will present a well-prepared program.
New York business men will be largely represented, plans under way indicating that the city will probably send the largest delegation it has ever had to the Boston meeting.

General Race News
PRECS COMMENTS.
The Supreme Court Decision.
Complexion and Human Rights.
(The New York Globe.)
"But the Caucasian will continue to rule.”—New York Sun.
"The determination of the white man to rule the land wherein he lives is not affected by the decision.”—New York Times.
Poor Caucasian! Poor white man! He will be submerged if not protected by a code of special laws. He is the fittest and the best, but so tender he cannot flourish under a rule of manhood equality. Yet men who so speak seldom realize that they are really insulting the Caucasian race.
The work of Jefferson, of Lincoln, of Sumner, and of all the glorious brotherhood of great statesmen who did not consider complexions when judging men, is unfinished. The old argument that some classes must be kept under still survives. In some circumstances it is the manual worker who must be kept to knowledge of his place and in others it is a race. Many of those who pretend to be leaders of public opinion and who think they are enlightened continue to be afraid of democracy. The fear is born, now as always, of class selfishness and class prejudice.
The proposition that political rights should be dependent on race color is merely a milder expression of the doctrine by which thousands of otherwise good men quieted their consciences for a couple of centuries and justified the existence of slavery on the new continent. Assuming that one race was inherently and necessarily inferior, it was said that the most humane arrangement was to allow members of the superior race to "own” members of the inferior race—that thus it would become to the interest of the master to look after the welfare of his property—that the only way to ensure the rightful supremacy of the white man was to keep the black man down.
The Negroes, who feel the bitter injustice of a system which denies to them an equal chance to grow and who await with exemplary patience the coming of the day when, under the providence of God, emancipation will be complete, are in many respects better Caucasians than those who labor to restrict liberty. The black man through hard experience has been educated into real belief in the Caucasian principle of equal chances for all the sons of men.

The National Bar Association Meets.

To All Colored Attorneys:
The National Negro Bar Association will hold its fifth annual session in the city of Boston, July 18, 19 and 20, inclusive.
The sessions heretofore have been well attended and it is the sense of those who have participated in these meetings that much good has been accomplished.
This meeting is called in connection with the session of the National Negro Business League, of which it is an auxiliary and from the inspiration of which it sprung.
All attorneys of color who are in the active practice of the law and are in good standing with the Bar of their respective states and counties can be and will be enrolled as members of this organization upon application properly made.
Perhaps there was never a time when there was more necessity for a strong organization among, and a thorough understanding of, the colored attorneys in this country. And there is no nucleus around which they might gather and get more inspiration than from the National Negro Business League.
We had as well face the issue that the American Bar Association does not want us and will not have us and we ought to have self-respect enough to disavow any intention of enforcing our presence.
We trust that those good brethren of ours who have told us that they were members of the American Bar Association will be thoughtful enough to confess the error of their way and come and go along with us as independent men who are winning our way as successful attorneys.
It is no more discreditable for this organization to be distinctly racial than the National Negro Medical Association, which is a live organization and unquestionably making good.
We trust that this meeting will be a record breaker in attendance and enthusiasm.
Signed: Perry W. Howard, President, Jackson, Miss.; William H. Harrison, Secretary, Oklahoma City, Okla.

Jitneys in Washington, D. C.
In Washington, D. C., a delegation of colored citizens waited upon the public utilities commission a few days ago and entered a vigorous protest against the policy adopted by the “jitney” bus managers to refuse to accommodate Negroes who wish to ride. The matter is being looked into. The status of the “jitney” bus is still in the air, no decision having yet been reached as to whether it is or is not a common carrier, within the meaning of the statute. It has been determined that the taxicab is a common carrier and the colored lawyers hold that the “jitney” bus ought to come under the same head. If the “jitney” is held to be a common carrier, it cannot draw the color-line, any more than the street cars can. If the “jitney” is not a common carrier, it is nothing and should not be granted a license to obstruct the public highways. It must conform to the laws of the District or get out of business.

Dr. Charles Roberts Will Work in Paris.
Dr. Charles H. Roberts, 242 West Fifty-third street, New York, sailed on the steamer Chicago, leaving New York Saturday, July 3, for Paris, France, where he will engage for several months in voluntary work in the dental clinics of Paris, connected with the hospital service for French soldiers. Dr. Roberts is especially well qualified for this work, as he has sufficient command of the French language to talk intelligently, and has had extensive experience in the various dental clinics of New York City. The National Negro Bar Association will meet in Boston July 18, 19, 20. The call says that "there was never a time when there was more necessity for a strong organization and a thorough understanding of the colored attorneys in this country.”