The Monitor
A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to the Interests of the Eight Thousand Colored People in Omaha and Vicinity, and to the Good of the Community
The Rev. JOHN ALBERT WILLIAMS, Editor
$1.00 a Year. 5c a Copy. Omaha, Nebraska, July 17, 1915 Volume I. Number 3

MAJOR LYNCH TAKES ISSUE WITH CHICAGO TRIBUNE
Two Classes Commercialize the Race Problem.
Chicago, 111. Thousands of the older generation of people, throughout the country, will remember the Hon. John R. Lynch, as a part of the south’s “Reconstruction” period; as a member of Congress, for several terms, from the state of Mississippi; as the temporary chairman of a National Republican convention held in Chicago, many years ago; as a Republican leader of his home state, Mississippi, for many years, and finally, as a major of the United States army until placed upon the retired list a year or two ago. Few men living are so thoroughly capable and such an authority on the subjects discussed in the following communication to the Chicago Daily Tribune, as is Major Lynch:
Speaking of the photoplay called “The Birth of a Nation,” the Tribune says:
“It is in all essential episodes grounded on historical fact, representing the struggles of that terrible time in the south when the whites, back from war, saw their government taken over by the newly enfranchised blacks controlled by the northern carpet baggers. What happened with the Negro ascendant and how the white re-established his supremacy is shown with obvious natural sympathy for the south, and no doubt with such heightening of effect as dramatic art has a right to employ. It presents what the south says and the north of our day, at least, is inclined to believe to be the truth.”
Exactly the reverse of this is true, for there never was a time when any one of the state governments of the south was taken over by the newly enfranchised blacks controlled by the northern carpetbaggers. That some mistakes were made during the progress of reconstruction will not be denied. How could it be otherwise? The war had just come to an end. Sectional animosity was bitter and intense. The Republican party was looked upon as the enemy of the south. No white man could identify himself with the Republican party at that time in any one of the southern states without running the risk of being socially ostracised and publicly characterized as an enemy to his section, his state, and his race. Notwithstanding these things, not less than 25 percent of the white men of that section—men who were to the manor born, many of them, ex-Confederate soldiers—identified themselves with and became leaders of the Republican party. These, in the main, were the men that the newly enfranchised blacks selected as their leaders and whose leadership they loyally and faithfully followed. I do not hesitate to assert that the reconstructed state governments at the south were the best governments these states ever had before or have ever had since. There never was a time when there was actual physical "Negro domination" or even carpetbag domination, in any one of the reconstructed states.
The play to which you refer, instead of being "grounded on historical fact,” is grounded on historical misrepresentation, without having a single actual fact as the basis of its existence. It is fiction pure and simple, painted from a diseased and prejudiced imagination, with a false and deceptive background as a basis upon which to stand. Such a play could not be otherwise than mischievous in its inception and dangerous in its results, even if the scenes depicted were a truthful reproduction of actual occurrences. But when it is or ought to be a well-known fact that the alleged scenes are pure fabrications with not a single background of truth to support them, their production can hardly be less than criminal. In the main they are false, slanderous, and malicious. They are calculated and intended to engender and intensify race prejudice and race hatred. In the interest of peace, order, truth, justice, and morality they should be suppressed. No good can come but much harm may result from them. It is, therefore, the duty of the authorities to suppress them, just as they would suppress any other nuisance that is calculated to incite crime and general disorder in the community.
In this connection allow me, as a southern man, to say, and to say whereof I know, that there are just two classes of white people at the south who keep this so-called race problem constantly before the public. The first class is composed of those who commercialize race prejudice simply for the dollars and cents they can make out of it. The second class is composed of those who utilize race prejudice for the purpose of securing political distinction and official recognition which they could never secure through any merit of their own. It makes no difference with these people how much harm to the public or injustice is done to any people or race as long as they can accomplish the purpose desired. They know there is not a particle of truth in anything they say or produce relative to this matter. But what difference does that make to them? The office seeker finds that this is his best paying political asset. What is the use, then, of considering or discussing the tariff, the financial or any other subject or question as long as this mythical race question will answer the purpose? They find that this is the one question upon which they can hold the white men of the south in abject political subjection and upon which the average white man at the north can be easily fooled and deceived. As long then, as the country believes, as you seem to believe, that these things are true and that public sentiment must tolerate them and approve methods that are criminal and practices that would be otherwise indefensible for the purpose of preventing “Negro domination,” just so long will this state of affairs continue. Let us hope that the eyes of the people will eventually be opened and that justice and fair play for all will be the accepted rule of action in all parts of our country.
JOHN R. LYNCH,
Author of “The Facts of Reconstruction."

AMERICAN CIVILIZATION AGAIN IS DISGRACED
Two Innocent Men Murdered by a Blood-Thirsty Mob—Ponder the Facts.
Macon, Ga., July 9.—The hot-headed spirit of the mob has again besmirched the state of Georgia. Silas Turner, a white planter of Gray, Ga., was found dead on Thursday at his farm home. Immediately, as is always the case, it was concluded that he had been murdered by colored men. A posse was immediately organized, and search was instituted. Colored Americans, of course, were their prey. Not far down the pike road leading to Macon, Will Green and his son, a boy of 17 years, were encountered. Their color was enough to prove their guilt. They were immediately “roped” by the infuriated mob, and notwithstanding their pleadings and protests, they were strung up on the limb of a nearby tree and their bodies riddled with bullets. Contented with having avenged the murder of their white brother, the mob dispersed.
Lynch Wrong Man.
According to information received here today, the authorities have made an investigation and positively learned that Green and his son were innocent victims of the mob. It is said that they were at their home miles from the scene of the murder when it occurred. Now suspicion has been directed to John Richey and Thomas Brooks, whose whereabouts on the day of the murder have not been satisfactorily accounted for by the authorities. This information has again aroused the mob spirit, notwithstanding the accepted view that two innocent Americans have been executed by the mob for the alleged murder.
Governor Is Not Immune.
At this writing the authorities are undecided on the question as to whether farmer Gray committed suicide or met his death by foul means. Meanwhile the mob spirit is rampant, and it is feared that if Richey and Brooks are caught they will meet the same fate as did Green and his 17-year-old son.
Verily, Georgia, is cursed with the spirit of the mob. Even the Governor of the commonwealth is not immune, as witness the mob’s conduct in the case of Governor Slaton on account of commuting the sentence of Frank.

CHARLES ROSS OPENS OFFICE IN LINCOLN.
Mr. Charles Ross, who was graduated from the law course in the University of Nebraska in June, has opened an office in Lincoln. He was for three years guard on the Varsity football team and three years weight man and high jumper on the varsity track team. When Kansas University drew the color line on Ross, Nebraska forced them to yield by threatening to break athletic relations.

General Race News
THE RACE PRESS POWERFUL
As a Molder of Sentiment and Lever for the Advancement of the Race.
A MOST VALUABLE ADJUNCT
(By SAMUEL R. ROSEMOND in the Pittsburgh Courant.)
Recently there has been much discussion as to the value of the Negro press, particularly as a medium for uplift. To those conversant with the possibilities of the press without especial reference to any particular race, it is apparent that a medium for expression such as a newspaper or magazine, cannot be other than a valuable adjunct, not only to those intimately identified, but to all. At this time all mankind is in great measure dependent upon the press. It is an influential factor in commerce, and through its columns alone can one become conversant with the daily happenings affecting not only one set or race, but mankind in general.
While the general press contains a smattering of the things affecting all the people, of necessity in abbreviated form, for details one must look to the press which is particularly and intimately identified with his own peculiar group. For this reason the Negro press is daily performing a wonderful work in the interest of the race. Through it alone can details be published of events which are, to us, most vital. Through it alone can matters be set out in such fashion as to acquaint even the least intelligent of its importance.
Negro journalism should be encouraged whenever possible and it should be loyally supported and patronized. Its pages contain not only race news, but advertisements generally, of the business of any and all races who are anxious for Negro patronage. In this way the scope of its influence is broadened. Copies of publications carrying advertisements must be sent regularly to the advertisers. In this manner the general news matter carried in all race papers comes under the notice of the advertisers. If it be legitimate, clean and wholesome, it creates within him broader conception of the Negro, his problems and the manner in which he grasps opportunities for individual as well as racial advancement. This knowledge, naturally gives him a better working idea and the working idea makes of him, the advertiser, a better citizen in that he grows to view the Negro not as the representative of any special race, but as his fellowman.
Business is the medium through or by which man must be judged. It were necessary, therefore, that we as a race transact our business along business principles. This means as well the establishment of a better working basis between the races, and ultimately becomes beneficial in no small way.
Much must be said in favor of the Negro press. Much credit must be accorded to it for the friendliness which it has engendered among those of the opposite race who are keenly alive to the responsibilities which surround us and which can alone be made known to the world at large through the medium of the press. And, too, while in many localities special attention is given to the dissemination of racial news items, at the same time a close observance of the law of nature which says, “first to yourself be true,” would undoubtedly result in the perfection of a powerful mouthpiece through which all news pertaining to the race might be set out in a clear, concise fashion that all might read, and thereby arrive at a conscientious determination to do that only which will result in good for the race.
The legitimate Negro publication needs your support, moral and financial; it needs your co-operation. If you are interested, then identify yourself with all things which have a tendency for Negro uplift.
No better evidence can be noted of the power and influence of the Negro press than the recent campaign to secure the enactment of the Equal Rights bill at Harrisburg. This paper endeavored to give to the Negro of Pennsylvania every item of news obtainable relating to the stages through which this effort passed; it has endeavored to acquaint the people with the various forms and methods of chicanery practiced by the politicians to thwart the effort to secure their rights; and it means to continue to keep them informed on the subject to the end that a general education to the creation of a broader interpretation of the meaning of rights, and a deeper respect therefor may result.
The Negro press has passed its initial stage, it is growing rapidly in strength and influence; it must continue to grow until it becomes a power in the effort to better the condition of the millions of black folks who find domicile within the confines of this great United States.

Captain Lincoln C. Valle, chief of the Roman Catholic bureau of exhibits at the National Half Century Exposition and Lincoln Anniversary Jubilee to be held in the city of Chicago, is traveling in the interest of this exhibit. Captain Valle reports great progress among all classes of people, throughout the nation in behalf of this great, and possibly the most unique exposition ever given at any time in the history of the world.

Four young colored men graduated from Harvard this year. Harry S. Keeland was graduated from college with a record of excellent work in chemistry; W. T. Cunningham graduated in business administration, and L. T. Wright became a doctor of medicine after a successful course; F. D. Brown received his degree in dentistry in March.

William A. Pledger, son of the late Col. W. A. Pledger of Georgia, has enlisted in the English army and is fighting with the allies in France. He served in the United States army in Cuba and the Philippines. Mr. Pledger enlisted at Cardiff, Wales. It is said that forty-three colored Americans are in his company and more are going.

J. W. E. Bowen, Jr., A. B., Wesleyan, and A. M., Harvard, has just been appointed Fellow of the American university at Washington, D. C., with a stipend of $400 a year. He will continue his work in history and economics at the Harvard graduate school for the degree of Ph.D.

LOUISVILLE SEGREGATION CASE GOES TO SUPREME COURT
National Association for Advancement of Colored People Backing the Appeal.
New York City, July 13.—The Segregation case against which the Kentucky court of appeals recently decided unfavorably by holding the Louisville ordinance valid was initiated and carried up to the highest court in Kentucky by the Louisville branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, cooperating with the national office. The decision in this case was given while a representative sent from the New York office of the N. A. A. C. P. to investigate the segregation case was in Louisville, and a mass meeting was immediately called in Quinn chapel, the Rev. Mr. Harvey, pastor. At this meeting it was voted to carry the case up to the supreme court of the United States and the local branch immediately organized a committee of one hundred and more, under twenty-five captains, to raise part of the necessary funds.
The National Association has been encouraged by the recent decision of the supreme court in declaring the Grandfather laws invalid. It offered its aid to the colored men who brought the Grandfather case from Maryland, and in the Oklahoma case had through its president, Mr. Moorfield Storey, filed a brief which was all that could be done since no argument was advanced. The Oklahoma case was one between the United States on the one hand and certain registrars of voters on the other, arising from an attempt on the part of the United States government to punish the defendants for complying with the provisions of the Oklahoma amendment. The Government as party to the case was represented by its solicitor general. The brief which Mr. Storey prepared was presented to the court by his friend, Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, an eminent lawyer of Washington, whose application could not fail to command the respect of the Court. It is the intention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to carry a succession of cases to the supreme court of the United States until it has succeeded in placing that court on record on the race question before the country.